(0:00 - 2:22)
I also wanted to ask about the PMS or PMSs in general. As Viraj mentioned, we are working with a lot of younger professionals who are now, who have accumulated a certain amount and would now be interested in PMSs. So how do they compare with a mutual fund? White Oak has both. 

And at what point in their journey should someone start looking at a PMS to add to their portfolio? See, I think this is, I'll tell you something, it's slightly complex because there are so many misunderstandings or there are so many myths. So first let me clarify that there are quite a few mutual funds which are run as if they are a PMS and there are quite a few PMS which someone might say that this is looking like a mutual fund portfolio. So I think there are all types. 

That is one. But broadly speaking, what one would keep in mind is that a PMS is a product which is meant for affluent HNI. And rightly or wrongly, somewhere the regulatory bent of mind is that people who are more affluent, more HNI or more, you know, richer people, their risk appetite and their understanding of investment products would be of a higher order. 

Now you might agree or disagree with it, but AIF's minimum is 1 crore, PMS's minimum is 50 lakhs. Why are these minimums done? Because these regulations are relatively light touch and there's nothing in regulation which is light touch frankly, we are very well regulated. But compared to a mutual fund, PMS and AIF regulation is relatively light touch. 

What it means is that in a PMS or AIF, the fund manager has a lot more latitude. Nobody tells you what is large cap, what is mid cap, what is small cap. In a mutual fund, it is well defined. 

Nobody tells like in a PMS or AIF, we can have performance linked fee. And performance linked fee meaning not some hurdle linked performance fee meaning we just charge some proportion of the alpha that we generate. So if we don't, so we have all these, you know, flat fees, performance linked fees, alpha linked fees, all these things are possible in a PMS or AIF. 

Third thing, you know, which people don't realize, they always compare on returns. They say that, okay, a PMS should always give higher return than mutual fund. If a PMS is investing, let us say I run a broad portfolio in a PMS and somebody is running a highly concentrated small cap, but in a mutual fund.

(2:23 - 3:40)
Now you can always argue that for a PMS investor, my portfolio is conservative and for a mutual fund investor, a pure small cap portfolio is extremely aggressive. So by and large, the rule is very simple. As narrowly you focus, like I said, what is BSE 500? So BSE 500, which is the market representation, the more narrowly you focus on it, the more your product high risk, high return. 

So it's not a function of PMS or mutual fund. There are a lot of mutual funds which run like PMS. That's why I said, correct. 

So as narrowly you focus, it can create that much of, you know, a volatile risk return combination. So it's not so much about the risk return actually. It's more about the operational setup, the fee structure, the investment latitude, those things. 

If you ask me in our PMS, for example, in our PMS, we have very high deviation from benchmark. So which means that we can aim for high alpha, but every once in a while, it can have volatility or fluctuation. Whereas if you see our mutual fund, it's run for retail investors. 

It's very conservative. We are running it for consistency. Our mutual fund may have lower alpha than our PMS, but probably it will be a lot more consistent as compared to, right.

(3:40 - 4:15)
Now someone can always say, but your PMS itself is conservative. So we run all our funds, we run for consistency of alpha, maybe in varying degrees, PMS versus mutual fund. We avoid doing anything which is very narrowly focused in the market and hence can result in wild swings or wide fluctuations. 

The last thing which I'll tell you is operations wise or in an operating configuration, a PMS is starkly different from a mutual fund. Just simple example. See a mutual fund is a mass retail vehicle for millions of people.

(4:16 - 4:59)
And you know very well that those millions of people are amenable to voting with their feet, meaning voting with the buttons. So what happens in a mutual fund, every day a lot of money comes in and every day a lot of money goes out. So in a mutual fund, apart from stock picking and portfolio construction, fund management is a big deal, is a big activity. 

And what will happen is that when times like 2020 come, or like even now, you know, say something like when March 2020 comes, theoretically you expect that people should give you money, but they are actually running away. Yeah, it never works like that. So everyone, so you know, in March 2020, people thought that human beings are the next dinosaur.

(5:00 - 6:06)
But right now, people think, our Amrit is going to come tomorrow. So it's extreme positions. So in mutual funds, the behavior of investors, how investor behavior shapes up and how the fund flows, you know. 

Second thing, you know, five years back you bought a mutual fund, it had ABCXYZ in the portfolio and the corpus was 500 crores. After 10 years, it will have ABCXYZ, it may have the whole zoo and the corpus may be 50,000 crores. PMS is not like that. 

See in a PMS, his portfolio in his Demat, your portfolio is in your Demat. There may be a day when he is withdrawing, that same day you may be buying. So he has to sell his Demat balance and give him money, and he has to deploy your money and credit your Demat account. 

So in a mutual fund, the behavior, his behavior impacts you, your behavior impacts me. In PMS, because the portfolios and the fund flows are segregated, investor behavior is automatically segregated. That's the major difference.

(6:06 - 9:59)
I think another way where the bias, right, which creeps in between a mutual fund and the PMS is, I think it's in my experience in the last three years, right, with PMSs, right, people become more and more, the time horizon starts reducing drastically. Every six months, every one year, they are like, what are you doing? If you have a lot of money, then let's withdraw it. See, that is transparency, because what happens in a PMS, each and every transaction. 

Exactly. You know, 20-25 years ago, you have a normal phone in your house, and someone else has a mobile phone. What are the major differences between a normal phone and a mobile phone? One of the key differences, you got itemized billing. 

Correct. No one used to analyze before. If itemized billing came, then who did you call, how many times did you talk? Exactly. 

So PMS is like an itemized billing, right? This comes back to that point. Transparency sometimes kills you more. Exactly. 

And we are experiencing as well, people, maybe, you know, there are people who have not made money in the last one and a half year in a PMS or something, and similar investor has not made money in a mutual fund also, but the mutual funds relaxed, okay, whatever. With a PMS, it's on your toes, right? What's happening? Yeah, because you can see every, you can see every transaction, and every month you can see the bill coming. Correct. 

Whatever is happening in PMS, all those things are happening in mutual funds. Exactly. Right. 

They are also incurring brokerage and STT. They are also buying and selling. Sometimes when they buy, it may make a gain, sometimes it may make a loss. 

Sometimes a stock has fallen. Yeah. You will still sell it and buy something which has fallen more. 

Correct. Because you are managing for relative performance. So actually, it's just that, you know, a PMS is like surgery without anesthesia, and in a mutual fund, you can't see. 

Correct. At one point, should a young investor, let's say somebody who is early 30s, they are doing fairly well, at what point should they start considering a PMS? Do you think there's a general, this or it can't be? Actually, it's not necessary. See, I'll tell you, in India, the corpus of equity mutual funds is 20-21 lakh crores. 

But non-promoter, non-institutional, meaning individual by my estimate, it is 35 to 40 lakh crores, maybe more. So the reality is that we have a very, very big equity culture. Right. 

So the people who are used to buying and selling equity and, you know, operating their own Demat accounts and all, they might find a PMS more relatable. Rather than selling the entire portfolio and putting it in a mutual fund. Correct. 

So there is that nuance, which one should not forget. So I think it's like this, that, you know, if you're a mutual fund investor, if you're doing fine, there's no reason that, okay, if my corpus becomes big, I should go to PMS. It's just about, you know, the experience, it's the operating platform. 

You can take PMS in your first crore, if it matches your objective. You can be 50 crores and not never buy a PMS, and you can be 2 crores and you might want to invest PMS, because it's more transparency, you're more engaged. There is a potential to have a high risk, high return combination. 

According to me, there are a lot of mutual funds, which should not be a mutual fund. Like sometimes people run a very, very narrow sectorally focused fund. Or, you know, people run like 15-20 stock small cap portfolio. 

Now this is, see what happens in a mutual fund, at a click of a button, you can buy it. Sometimes people might buy it just because last three year return is looking very good. But risk return combination, it's not amenable for a retail investor. 

It's not amenable for someone who is just starting out. So what I feel is that, for the asset manager, it is important that they put the right product in a PMS platform and the right product in a mutual fund platform. And from a customer's perspective, they should understand what will suit my risk return profile. 

It's like that. It's not got to do with whether somebody has 2 crores or 50 crores, I think, or 20 lakhs or whatever it is.